Java Boot Camp 2025 - Accenture v3.md, before:


### **AM Structure**
**First half** 
	- Discuss topic
	- Live demo with Java regarding the topic
**Second half** 
	- Describe assignment
	- Solve an example for the assignment
### **PM Structure**
Have others demo assignments and/or what they have learned
### **GitHub Repository**
We will use a repository stored in Github to share problems and solutions - https://github.com/jfsaaved-accenture

---
### **Week 1 – Introduction to Coding (Language-Agnostic Concepts with Java)**

| Day       | Topic / Agenda                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Live Demo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Hands-On                                              |
| --------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| Tuesday   | **AM**<br>- Introductions / ice breaker game. <br><br>- Explain the bootcamp, engagement expectation. What to expect. **Mental map of the bootcamp**<br>- What is a programming language? Why Java?<br>- Explaining TDD, show example<br><br>- Hello World! Example<br><br>**PM**<br>- Introduce **data types and variables** | **AM**<br>- Running Java without IDE<br>- Tools introductions<br>- Setting up environment - Java, IntelliJ, chocolatey, git version control<br>- Create hello world<br><br>**PM**<br>- Show data types examples, and how to print them<br>- format string syntax<br>- Explain format moving forward for the rest of the sessions with TDD | Setup environment and install JDK and do Hello World! |
| Wednesday | **AM**<br>- Introduce **operators, expressions, and conditionals**<br>- Simple problem TDD with operators, expressions, and conditionals<br><br>**PM**<br>Showcase demos                                                                                                                                                      | **AM**<br>- ++, --, +, -, ==, \|\|, !=, %<br>if, if/else, if,else if, switch<br><br><br>**PM**<br>Show live solution<br><br>                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Solve a programming problem with TDD                  |
| Thursday  | **AM**<br>- Introduce **loops & arrays**<br>- Simple problem TDD with loops<br><br>**PM**<br>Showcase demos                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | **AM**<br>for, while, dowhile<br><br>**PM**<br>Show live solution to problem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Solve a couple of programming problems with TDD       |
| Friday    | **AM**<br>- Introduce **functions and parameters**<br>- Simple problem TDD with functions and paramters<br><br>**PM**<br>Showcase demos                                                                                                                                                                                       | **AM**<br>isPrime(int n), reverse(String s), fizzBuzz()<br><br>**PM**<br>Show live solution to problem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Solve a couple of programming problems with TDD       |

---
### **Week 2 – Java & OOP**

| Day | Topic / Agenda                                                                                                                                             | Code Demo                                                                                                                                      | Hands-On |
| --- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| Mon | **AM**<br>- Basics of OOP<br>- Introduce **encapsulation**, **inheritance**, **polymorphism**, **abstraction**<br><br><br>**PM**<br>Showcase demos<br><br> | - Classes & Objects, Fields, Methods<br>- Constructors, getters, setters, this<br>- extends, super<br>- override methods<br>- abstract classes |          |
| Tue | **AM**<br>- Introduce **exceptions, and error handling**<br>- How to debug code and errors<br><br>**PM**<br>Showcase demos<br>                             | - How to read stack trace and how to handle exceptions                                                                                         |          |
| Wed | **AM**<br>- Introduce **data structures and algorithms**, **arrays**, **Java libraries**<br><br>**PM**<br>Showcase demos<br>                               |                                                                                                                                                |          |
| Thu | **AM**<br>- Introduce **mutability**<br><br>**PM**<br>Showcase demos                                                                                       |                                                                                                                                                |          |
| Fri | **AM**<br><br><br>**PM**<br>Showcase demos                                                                                                                 |                                                                                                                                                |          |

---

Commit message:

Update Java Boot Camp 2025 - Accenture v3.md
Add goals and information

Java Boot Camp 2025 - Accenture v3.md, after:

### **Information**
- A condensed guide to Java, OOP, & Spring Boot, with AM & PM sessions
- Interactive and will spend a decent amount of time reading and writing Java code
- Answers will be shared for the hands-on at the end of the day
- **No WBS**
### **Goals / Benefits**
- Get a basic understanding of Java & Spring Boot
- Get a foundational mental road map and be confident on how to navigate deeper
- Be confident in making your own Java personal projects
- Be confident in learning a new language
- Have a repository of multiple code examples that you made / collaborated with others
- Have some foundation for your first Java role
- Have a place to practice public communication skills and doing technical demos
### **AM Structure (1 hour)**
**First half (30 mins)** 
- Discuss topic
- Live demo with Java regarding the topic
**Second half (30 mins)** 
- Describe assignment
- Solve an example for the assignment
### **PM Structure (1 hour)**
Have others demo assignments and/or what they have learned
### **GitHub Repository**
We will use a repository stored in Github to share problems and solutions - https://github.com/jfsaaved-accenture

---
### **Week 1 – Introduction to Coding (Language-Agnostic Concepts with Java)**

| Day       | Topic / Agenda                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Live Demo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Hands-On                                              |
| --------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| Tuesday   | **AM**<br>- Introductions / ice breaker game. <br><br>- Explain the bootcamp, engagement expectation. What to expect. **Mental map of the bootcamp**<br>- What is a programming language? Why Java?<br>- Explaining TDD, show example<br><br>- Hello World! Example<br><br>**PM**<br>- Introduce **data types and variables** | **AM**<br>- Running Java without IDE<br>- Tools introductions<br>- Setting up environment - Java, IntelliJ, chocolatey, git version control<br>- Create hello world<br><br>**PM**<br>- Show data types examples, and how to print them<br>- format string syntax<br>- Explain format moving forward for the rest of the sessions with TDD | Setup environment and install JDK and do Hello World! |
| Wednesday | **AM**<br>- Introduce **operators, expressions, and conditionals**<br>- Simple problem TDD with operators, expressions, and conditionals<br><br>**PM**<br>Showcase demos                                                                                                                                                      | **AM**<br>- ++, --, +, -, ==, \|\|, !=, %<br>if, if/else, if,else if, switch<br><br><br>**PM**<br>Show live solution<br><br>                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Solve a programming problem with TDD                  |
| Thursday  | **AM**<br>- Introduce **loops & arrays**<br>- Simple problem TDD with loops<br><br>**PM**<br>Showcase demos                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | **AM**<br>for, while, dowhile<br><br>**PM**<br>Show live solution to problem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Solve a couple of programming problems with TDD       |
| Friday    | **AM**<br>- Introduce **functions and parameters**<br>- Simple problem TDD with functions and paramters<br><br>**PM**<br>Showcase demos                                                                                                                                                                                       | **AM**<br>isPrime(int n), reverse(String s), fizzBuzz()<br><br>**PM**<br>Show live solution to problem                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Solve a couple of programming problems with TDD       |

---
### **Week 2 – Java & OOP**

| Day | Topic / Agenda                                                                                                                                             | Code Demo                                                                                                                                      | Hands-On |
| --- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| Mon | **AM**<br>- Basics of OOP<br>- Introduce **encapsulation**, **inheritance**, **polymorphism**, **abstraction**<br><br><br>**PM**<br>Showcase demos<br><br> | - Classes & Objects, Fields, Methods<br>- Constructors, getters, setters, this<br>- extends, super<br>- override methods<br>- abstract classes |          |
| Tue | **AM**<br>- Introduce **exceptions, and error handling**<br>- How to debug code and errors<br><br>**PM**<br>Showcase demos<br>                             | - How to read stack trace and how to handle exceptions                                                                                         |          |
| Wed | **AM**<br>- Introduce **data structures and algorithms**, **arrays**, **Java libraries**<br><br>**PM**<br>Showcase demos<br>                               |                                                                                                                                                |          |
| Thu | **AM**<br>- Introduce **mutability**<br><br>**PM**<br>Showcase demos                                                                                       |                                                                                                                                                |          |
| Fri | **AM**<br><br><br>**PM**<br>Showcase demos                                                                                                                 |                                                                                                                                                |          |

---
